Initial commit (#1)
vi-technologies/data-engineering-home-assignment: README.md

> # Data Engineering Assignment (pySpark)

Author: ```suggestion
# Data Engineering Assignment (PySpark)
```

- Write code that answers the objectives
- Deploy the code to the provided AWS account

You are a Data Engineer in a financial institute. Your task is to calculate and answer the business questions (objectives) provided by the analysts team. You’re provided here with a small dataset, but in a real-world scenario you'll have a huge dataset, so the code needs to be deployed and run on a cloud environenment.

## Coding instructions:
- The file `stock_prices.csv` contains daily closing price of a few stocks on the NYSE/NASDAQ
- Load the file as a DataFrame, Dataset, or RDD and complete the assignment objectives
- The result of each question should be saved as a separate file in an S3 Bucket

## Assumptions:
- Use only the closing price to determine returns
- If a price is missing on a given date, you can compute returns from the closest available date
- Return can be trivially computed as the % difference of two prices

## Objectives:
1. Compute the average daily return of all stocks for every date

   | date    | average_return |
   | -------- | ------- |
   | yyyy-MM-dd  | return of all stocks on that date   |

> 2. Which stock was traded most frequently - as measured by **closing price * volume** - on average? 

Author: שוווי

    | ticker | frequency |
    | ------ | ---------------------- |
    |   |  |

3. Which stock was the most volatile as measured by the annualized standard deviation of daily returns?

    | ticker | standard_deviation |
    | ------ |--------------------|
    |   |                    |

4. What were the top three 30-day return dates (% increase in closing price as compared to the closing price 30 days prior) — present ticker and date combinations

>     | ticker | date |

Author: מצפים ל 3 תאריכים (יכול להיות אותה מנייה)

    | ------ | ---- |
    |   |      |

## AWS Deployment
- At Vi, we manage and provision cloud infrastructure through definition files ([IaC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)). Please use IaC (such as CloudFormation) to deploy the code you created to perform the below tasks.
  - If your not familiar with Cloudformation - please use AWS console
- Infrastructure tasks:
  - Create a glue job
  - Create a Glue Catalog Database
  - Create a Glue Catalog Table for each result file
  - Create crawler/s
- **Expected result: Questions (objectives) results should be queryable from Athena**
- If you encounter issues with reading/writing from/to S3 buckets, it is recommended to add your name as a prefix to the bucket’s name. For example name the bucket: “data-engineer-assignment-my-name”

> - Use the AWS credentials provided in the email to deploy the code

Author: ```suggestion
- Use the AWS credentials provided in the email to deploy the code. **DO NOT COMMIT THEM IN THE CODE.**
```

> - Use the AWS credentials provided in the email to deploy the code. **DO NOT COMMIT THEM IN THE CODE.**

Author: ```suggestion
- Use the AWS credentials provided in the email to deploy the code. **DO NOT COMMIT THEM IN THE CODE.**
- Deploy your resources in the **Europe (Frankfurt) eu-central-1**
```

# Data Engineering Assignment (PySpark)
Before starting to work on the assignment - please make sure you fork this repository.

## Requirements:
This is an assignment for a Data Engineer role. You are requested to:
- Read and understand the requirements. You may contact the interviewer for further clarification
- Write code that answers the objectives
- Deploy the code to the provided AWS account

You are a Data Engineer in a financial institute. Your task is to calculate and answer the business questions (objectives) provided by the analysts team. You’re provided here with a small dataset, but in a real-world scenario you'll have a huge dataset, so the code needs to be deployed and run on a cloud environenment.

## Coding instructions:

> - The file `stock_prices.csv` contains daily closing price of a few stocks on the NYSE/NASDAQ

Author: ```suggestion
- The file `stocks_data.csv` contains daily closing price of a few stocks on the NYSE/NASDAQ
```

- Load the file as a DataFrame, Dataset, or RDD and complete the assignment objectives
- The result of each question should be saved as a separate file in an S3 Bucket

## Assumptions:
- Use only the closing price to determine returns
- If a price is missing on a given date, you can compute returns from the closest available date
- Return can be trivially computed as the % difference of two prices

## Objectives:
1. Compute the average daily return of all stocks for every date

   | date    | average_return |
   | -------- | ------- |
   | yyyy-MM-dd  | return of all stocks on that date   |

> 2. Which stock was traded most frequently - as measured by **closing price * volume** - on average? 

Author: ```suggestion
2. Which stock was traded with the highest worth - as measured by **closing price * volume** - on average? 
```

>     | ticker | frequency |

Author: ```suggestion
    | ticker | value |
```

    | ------ | ---------------------- |
    |   |  |

3. Which stock was the most volatile as measured by the annualized standard deviation of daily returns?

    | ticker | standard_deviation |
    | ------ |--------------------|
    |   |                    |

> 4. What were the top three 30-day return dates (% increase in closing price as compared to the closing price 30 days prior) — present ticker and date combinations

Author: ```suggestion
4. What were the top three 30-day return dates as measured by % increase in closing price compared to the closing price 30 days prior? present the top three ticker and date combinations.
```

    | ticker | date |
    | ------ | ---- |
    |   |      |

## AWS Deployment
- At Vi, we manage and provision cloud infrastructure through definition files ([IaC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)). Please use IaC (such as CloudFormation) to deploy the code you created to perform the below tasks.
  - If your not familiar with Cloudformation - please use AWS console
- Infrastructure tasks:
  - Create a glue job
  - Create a Glue Catalog Database
  - Create a Glue Catalog Table for each result file
  - Create crawler/s
- **Expected result: Questions (objectives) results should be queryable from Athena**
- If you encounter issues with reading/writing from/to S3 buckets, it is recommended to add your name as a prefix to the bucket’s name. For example name the bucket: “data-engineer-assignment-my-name”
- Use the AWS credentials provided in the email to deploy the code. **DO NOT COMMIT THEM IN THE CODE.**

> - Deploy your resources in the **Europe (Frankfurt) eu-central-1**
> - You can use the template cloudformation and deploy command to deploy the stack file, example:

Author: ```suggestion
- Deploy your resources in the **Europe (Frankfurt) eu-central-1**
- Create a local `.env` file with the following environment variables
  - AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
  - AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
  - STACK_NAME
- Use the `create-update-stack.sh` in the repo to to deploy your stack file
```

    | ticker | date |
    | ------ | ---- |
    |   |      |

## AWS Deployment
- At Vi, we manage and provision cloud infrastructure through definition files ([IaC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)). Please use IaC (such as CloudFormation) to deploy the code you created to perform the below tasks.
  - If your not familiar with Cloudformation - please use AWS console
- Infrastructure tasks:
  - Create a glue job
  - Create a Glue Catalog Database
  - Create a Glue Catalog Table for each result file
  - Create crawler/s
- **Expected result: Questions (objectives) results should be queryable from Athena**
- If you encounter issues with reading/writing from/to S3 buckets, it is recommended to add your name as a prefix to the bucket’s name. For example name the bucket: “data-engineer-assignment-my-name”
- Use the AWS credentials provided in the email to deploy the code. **DO NOT COMMIT THEM IN THE CODE.**
- Deploy your resources in the **Europe (Frankfurt) eu-central-1**
- Create a local `.env` file with the following environment variables
  - AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
  - AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
  - STACK_NAME

> - Use the `create-update-stack.sh` in the repo to to deploy your stack file

Author: ```suggestion
- Use the `create-update-stack.sh` in the repo to to deploy your stack file. A demo stack file is provided in the repo
```
